Welcome back.
Now that we understand the theory behind some of these tracking API is open TV.
Let's go ahead and explore how we can actually implement them with Python.
I will actually be coding anything out manually in this lecture because the actual syntax with a tracking
API is really simple.
So instead we're going to be exploring the course notebook file showing how you can use it because there's
also some functional code there that allows it to kind of player on the fit and easy to use manner.
Let's open up that notebook and check it out.
OK here I am at the tracking API.
Notebook.
First thing you notice is an import CB2.
So that's not a big deal.
And then the second thing here is this convenience function I created which allows you to easily select
a tracker given the input.
So what this does is it just prints out a bunch of information and then you get to choose based off
entering 0 1 2 3 or 4 What actual tracking API you want to use.
So it asks you to please select a tracker and then based off the choice you provide it's going to create
a tracker.
So the Treasury guys they all start the same way.
It's CB2 tracker.
And then the actual name of the tracker and then underscore create open close princes.
So I went ahead and created the tracker and then I just return it free to use.
So let's run this and see what this looks like.
So if you run this it should say welcome what tracker would you like to use.
And number here is for boosting 1 for m m i l or whatever 3 Tildy and so on.
So we can just go ahead and use one of these.
So go ahead and use median flow.
So provide for and hit enter.
Keep in mind you should only run this function or sell one at a time if you try running this twice without
actually providing an input.
You have an asterix here and it keeps running forever.
That's the case just going to get kernel restart kernel and then run the cells again.
Now something to keep in mind later on in my code.
You see this kind of a weird line here.
String tracker split and then some indexing.
It's basically just to grab the actual track or name.
So if you take a look at what the tracker is it's a Strecker median flow.
Now what I wanted to do is later on use text on the CB2 image to actually type out tracker median flow.
So I ended up doing is I translated that to a string.
I split it on the whitespace grab the first instance and then got rid of this little left then or greater
then.
So let me show you what I actually mean by that.
So essentially if I then index from 1 onwards I get rid of that less than sign.
So this whole line of code is just for grabbing the string from the tracker and you'll see later on
I use that string to label the tracker window.
OK so do we actually use these tracking API.
That's what you really came here for.
It's really quite simple.
You just create your tracker.
And here I have this function call that creates it for you then you can if you want grab the string
we read in the video we capture the first frame and then we're going to use this special select our
function which when provided a frame allows you to manually draw out the bounding box of what you want
to track so we can draw out manually our region of interest.
Then we're going to do this is the key point is say tracker and then call an I.T. which initializes
the tracker and we need to do is provide the frame of that first video.
And the reason of interest you want to track the tracker will automatically deploy to try to keep tracking
that region of interest given the frame that you gave it.
So in a while you're going to keep reading new frames and then you are going to update the trackers
say tracker that update an update to the new frame that you gave this tracker and it's going to attempt
to refine that relocate the region of interest and it's going to locate the new region of interest that
we can draw a rectangle around it.
And it's also going to tell you if it was able to successfully perform that or not.
Let's imagine that you're trying to track someone dancing in a room.
So you keep updating your tracker based off the new frame of the dancer.
But if the dancer leaves the room you're not going to attract that dancer anymore.
So if it's out of the field of view the success is going to be equal to false so all we do is this our
Y is essentially an array of four floating point values of the way the rectangles points are.
So in order to actually plot it out with CB2 that rectangle I went ahead and map them to all be integers
and then I converted that to a tuple.
So it doesn't have this little tuple here.
Then if success.
Meaning if I actually was able to find and update my tracker I create point 1 and point 2 and then draw
my rectangle there.
So here it is drawing from top left to bottom right a green rectangle and then thickness three else
meaning the tracking was a failure.
I'm going to put the text on said Failure to the backtracking.
And this is just C-v to put text which read them before then I want to actually display the trucker
name.
So that's why I actually grab the truck remains to begin with and then I'm going to display the results.
So that's really all there is to it.
The key points to understand here are three things we haven't seen before this one which is select our
A-Y allows you to select the region of interest manually on the first frame.
Then we're able to initialize trucker you pass in the frame in the region of interest and then you update
based off new frames and it gives you back success whether or not it was able to track it.
And then the region of interest and that's all there is to it.
So let's run this.
So when you run this it's going to ask you to choose a tracking API and then go ahead and choose one
I'll choose four.
And before you actually enter here I would recommend that whatever you want to track is looking directly
at your camera.
Otherwise you're not going to be in the first frame you're not going have anything to draw that region
of interest in the box.
I'm looking at my camera right now.
So smile then hit enter.
OK so here we see the arrow selector and all you need to do is click down and drag your bounding box
and then hit enter upon hitting answer.
You'll see the tracking window open.
And here we're using Tracker median flow.
And I'm going to try to attempt to lose it here but kind of turning my face as a profile and seeing
if I quickly move my face if I can lose the tracking so they can see checker median flow.
And we see the filler to the tech tracking.
If we lose it becomes to try to reattach ourselves to the square.
But now let's go ahead and rerun this and now I'm going to select boosting so I'll type out zero here.
Enter And again for the Arawa selector you just drag your bounding box over what you want to track and
then hit enter.
So once you enter you should see yourself being tracked.
So there I am very impressed with boosting tracking and this guy performs really well.
We already went over the pros and cons of different tracking methods but you can see here going to try
to shake my head really fast to attempt to lose it but it's still actually able to track very very well.
So you can see here it's performing really well for frames per second.
OK.
So that's it for this lecture.
Hope you enjoy playing of that notebook.